README.md, before:

# DRL Portfolio Optimization Custom
A portfolio optimization framework leveraging Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) and a custom trading environment 
developed on AWS SageMaker.

### Table of Contents
- [Motivation](#motivation)
- [AWS SageMaker Studio](#aws-sagemaker-studio)
- [Incremental Approach](#incremental-approach)
  - [Custom DRL in a Toy Environment](#custom-drl-in-a-toy-environment)
  - [Custom Environment - Deterministic Time-Invariant Pricing](#custom-environment---deterministic-time-invariant-pricing)
  - [Testing - Deterministic Time Varying Pricing Functions](#testing---deterministic-time-varying-pricing-functions)
  - [Testing - Real Pricing Information](#testing---real-pricing-information)
- [Results](#results)
- [License](#license)
- [Contributions](#contributions)

## Motivation
This repo is an extension of a three term Independent Study of [Daniel Fudge](https://www.linkedin.com/in/daniel-fudge) 
with [Professor Yelena Larkin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/yelena-larkin-6b7b361b/) 
as part of a concurrent Master of Business Administration (MBA) and a [Diploma in Financial Engineering](https://schulich.yorku.ca/programs/fnen/)
from the [Schulich School of Business](https://schulich.yorku.ca/).    

Please see this [repo](https://github.com/daniel-fudge/DRL-Portfolio-Optimization) for a detailed description of the 
previous three terms.  A YouTube [playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLJtqqeC4KrwQos6A3uMbZloJgM54R0H12) 
was also created to document the implementation and results.   

This term was spawned in a new repo for clarity with less focus on the background and theory and more focus on the 
implementation and results. 

## AWS SageMaker Studio
As discussed in [report 1](https://github.com/daniel-fudge/DRL-Portfolio-Optimization/blob/master/docs/report1.pdf), 
cloud computing is one of the key enablers that takes machine learning from theory and toy problems to real production 
applications.  The Amazon Web Service ([AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/)) is the current industry leader in cloud computing 
and its [SageMaker](https://aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/) platform provides users with the ability to rapidly scale 
applications from small experiments to massively parallel production solutions.  [AWS SageMaker Studio](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/amazon-sagemaker-studio-the-first-fully-integrated-development-environment-for-machine-learning/)
adds even more value as the first Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for Machine Learning.

This project levers the power of SageMaker Studio.  If you wish to run these models, it is recommend that you review 
this [playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLhr1KZpdzukcOr_6j_zmSrvYnLUtgqsZz) from AWS.  [A Cloud Guru](https://acloud.guru/)
also has excellent training on AWS and other cloud providers.    

## Incremental Approach
In the previous [term](https://github.com/daniel-fudge/DRL-Portfolio-Optimization), a DRL framework was developed for 
portfolio optimization but as was discussed in the future work [section](https://github.com/daniel-fudge/DRL-Portfolio-Optimization#training-process), 
the standard DRL training and test process is not well suited for portfolio optimization because the rules of the game 
keep changing.  To build an realistic process we need to build a custom DRL algorithm and a custom train/test 
environment.  Previously we relied on proven frameworks but since we will be building everything from scratch we will 
follow an incremental approach that proves the effectiveness of each component before increasing the complexity and 
difficulty.  The first increment will be developed in a separate repo to isolate the development.

#### Custom DRL in a Toy Environment
This [repo](https://github.com/daniel-fudge/sagemaker-tennis) develops a custom DRL algorithm to solve the [Tennis](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents/blob/master/docs/Learning-Environment-Examples.md#tennis) 
environment provided by [Unity](https://unity3d.com/machine-learning/).  This will prove the custom DRL implementation 
on SageMaker.

#### Custom Environment - Deterministic Time-Invariant Pricing
This increment builds a custom training and test environment that replicates how the custom DRL would be deployed in 
production.  To separate the environment development from the complexity of real trading data, simulated price data will 
be generated in a deterministic manner by functions that remain constant over time.  This ensures that an effective 
process will be able to solve the environment.  

#### Testing - Deterministic Time Varying Pricing Functions
This increment allows the pricing functions to be dependent on time.  In other words, the rules of the game change over 
time.  The process should adapt to these changing rules.

#### Testing - Real Pricing Information
In this final increment the process is applied to real signals as a final test. 
 
## Results 


## License
This code is copyright under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## Contributions
Please feel free to raise issues against this repo if you have any questions or suggestions for improvement.

Commit message:

Added Docker references to README.md file.

README.md, after:

# DRL Portfolio Optimization Custom
A portfolio optimization framework leveraging Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) and a custom trading environment 
developed on AWS SageMaker.

### Table of Contents
- [Motivation](#motivation)
- [AWS SageMaker Studio](#aws-sagemaker-studio)
- [Incremental Approach](#incremental-approach)
  - [Custom DRL in a Toy Environment](#custom-drl-in-a-toy-environment)
  - [Custom Environment - Deterministic Time-Invariant Pricing](#custom-environment---deterministic-time-invariant-pricing)
  - [Testing - Deterministic Time Varying Pricing Functions](#testing---deterministic-time-varying-pricing-functions)
  - [Testing - Real Pricing Information](#testing---real-pricing-information)
- [Results](#results)
- [License](#license)
- [Contributions](#contributions)

## Motivation
This repo is an extension of a three term Independent Study of [Daniel Fudge](https://www.linkedin.com/in/daniel-fudge) 
with [Professor Yelena Larkin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/yelena-larkin-6b7b361b/) 
as part of a concurrent Master of Business Administration (MBA) and a [Diploma in Financial Engineering](https://schulich.yorku.ca/programs/fnen/)
from the [Schulich School of Business](https://schulich.yorku.ca/).    

Please see this [repo](https://github.com/daniel-fudge/DRL-Portfolio-Optimization) for a detailed description of the 
previous three terms.  A YouTube [playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLJtqqeC4KrwQos6A3uMbZloJgM54R0H12) 
was also created to document the implementation and results.   

This term was spawned in a new repo for clarity with less focus on the background and theory and more focus on the 
implementation and results. 

## AWS SageMaker Studio
As discussed in [report 1](https://github.com/daniel-fudge/DRL-Portfolio-Optimization/blob/master/docs/report1.pdf), 
cloud computing is one of the key enablers that takes machine learning from theory and toy problems to real production 
applications.  The Amazon Web Service ([AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/)) is the current industry leader in cloud computing 
and its [SageMaker](https://aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/) platform provides users with the ability to rapidly scale 
applications from small experiments to massively parallel production solutions.  [AWS SageMaker Studio](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/amazon-sagemaker-studio-the-first-fully-integrated-development-environment-for-machine-learning/)
adds even more value as the first Integrated Development Environment (IDE) for Machine Learning.

This project levers the power of SageMaker Studio.  If you wish to run these models, it is recommend that you review 
this [playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLhr1KZpdzukcOr_6j_zmSrvYnLUtgqsZz) from AWS.  [A Cloud Guru](https://acloud.guru/)
also has excellent training on AWS and other cloud providers.    

## Incremental Approach
In the previous [term](https://github.com/daniel-fudge/DRL-Portfolio-Optimization), a DRL framework was developed for 
portfolio optimization but as was discussed in the future work [section](https://github.com/daniel-fudge/DRL-Portfolio-Optimization#training-process), 
the standard DRL training and test process is not well suited for portfolio optimization because the rules of the game 
keep changing.  To build an realistic process we need to build a custom DRL algorithm and a custom train/test 
environment.  Previously we relied on proven frameworks but since we will be building everything from scratch we will 
follow an incremental approach that proves the effectiveness of each component before increasing the complexity and 
difficulty.  The first increment will be developed in a separate repo to isolate the development.

#### Custom DRL in a Toy Environment
This [repo](https://github.com/daniel-fudge/sagemaker-tennis) develops a custom DRL algorithm to solve the [Tennis](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents/blob/master/docs/Learning-Environment-Examples.md#tennis) 
environment provided by [Unity](https://unity3d.com/machine-learning/).  This will prove the custom DRL implementation 
on SageMaker.  The [SageMaker Python SDK](https://sagemaker.readthedocs.io/en/stable/frameworks/rl/using_rl.html)
is normally used when training DRL models on AWS.  Unfortunately this is limited to the [Ray RLlib](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/rllib.html)
or [Coach](https://nervanasystems.github.io/coach/) tool kits, which can't be used for the custom training and testing 
environment we wish to develop.  We will then be building a custom [Docker](https://www.docker.com/resources/what-container) 
container, register it in the AWS [ECR](https://aws.amazon.com/ecr/) and use the AWS [BYOD](https://sagemaker.readthedocs.io/en/stable/overview.html#byo-docker-containers-with-sagemaker-estimators)
functionality.
To lay the foundation for this increment, the A Cloud Guru [AWS ECS - Scaling Docker](https://acloud.guru/learn/aws-ecs-scaling-docker)
course is being completed.  

#### Custom Environment - Deterministic Time-Invariant Pricing
This increment builds a custom training and test environment that replicates how the custom DRL would be deployed in 
production.  To separate the environment development from the complexity of real trading data, simulated price data will 
be generated in a deterministic manner by functions that remain constant over time.  This ensures that an effective 
process will be able to solve the environment.  

#### Testing - Deterministic Time Varying Pricing Functions
This increment allows the pricing functions to be dependent on time.  In other words, the rules of the game change over 
time.  The process should adapt to these changing rules.

#### Testing - Real Pricing Information
In this final increment the process is applied to real signals as a final test. 
 
## Results 


## License
This code is copyright under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## Contributions
Please feel free to raise issues against this repo if you have any questions or suggestions for improvement.
